



Network Working Group                                         B. Newbold
Internet-Draft                                               D. Holmgren
Intended status: Informational                            Bluesky Social
Expires: 18 March 2026                                 14 September 2025


             Authenticated Transfer: Architecture Overview
                    draft-newbold-at-architecture-00

Abstract

   Authenticated Transfer (AT) is a collection of protocol components
   that together provide a generic framework for interoperable social
   web applications, using global aggregations of interlinked, self-
   certifying data records.

   This informational document provides an overview of the entire
   system, as implemented in late 2025.  Some of those components may be
   in scope as work for the IETF, while other components may not.  Many
   components are general-purpose and may find use outside of the
   context of AT.  The intent of this document is to provide context for
   how all the components can fit together for certain use cases.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-newbold-at-architecture/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/bluesky-social/ietf-drafts.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."




Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   This Internet-Draft will expire on 18 March 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2025 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction and Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   2.  Network Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.1.  Permanent Account Identifiers (DIDs)  . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2.2.  Handles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
   3.  Data Repositories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
     3.1.  Data Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
     3.2.  AT References (URIs)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
     3.3.  Cross-Repository References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
     3.4.  Data Schemas  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
   4.  Network Architecture  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
     4.1.  Personal Data Server (PDS)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
     4.2.  Relay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
     4.3.  Application Indices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
     4.4.  Composable Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
     4.5.  Client Applications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
   5.  Moderation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
     5.1.  Labeling  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
   6.  Authentication and Authorization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
     6.1.  OAuth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
     6.2.  Permissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
     6.3.  Service Auth  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   7.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
   8.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
   9.  References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
     9.1.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
     9.2.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
   Appendix A.  DID Documents  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
   Appendix B.  Cryptographic Keys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
   Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19



Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


1.  Introduction and Background

   Authenticated Transfer (AT) is a generic protocol framework for
   interoperable social web applications, using global aggregations of
   interlinked, self-certifying data records.  Authority and
   authenticity of user-generated content are rooted in persistent user-
   controlled account identifiers, as opposed to network locations,
   which allows end users to migrate between hosting providers without
   impacting social graph links.

   Applications interoperate by reusing data records hosted in public
   user repositories.  Records often include references to records in
   other repositories.  In aggregate, they form a global graph of
   interconnected structured data.  Records conform to machine-readable
   data schemas (Lexicons).  Lexicon schemas are also published as
   records and can be resolved as such.  A composable annotation layer
   (labels) separates many aspects of content moderation from the
   operation of the underlying network infrastructure.

   The design goals for the system are to enable “big world” social web
   applications with features and user experience competitive with
   modern commercial platforms, but with stronger end-user control over
   public identity and published data, and with no single party in
   exclusive control of any aspect of the overall network.  As a
   principle, it should be possible to substitute providers for each
   service role in the network with minimal disruption, and barriers to
   entry for new providers should be minimized.

   Users participate in the network by authenticating a client
   application to their current account hosting provider (Personal Data
   Server, or PDS).  They publish content (including social
   interactions, for example, a “follow” or “emoji reaction”) by
   creating typed data records in their public data repository.  Signed
   repository operations are broadcast by the PDS over a firehose event
   stream (a WebSocket).  Repository operations are cryptographically
   authenticated, which allows intermediate services to aggregate and
   redistribute event streams.  Indexing services (”AppViews”) receive
   event streams and provide opinionated, application-specific views and
   aggregations of the network, such as reaction counts or full text
   search.  Client applications make authenticated API requests to
   AppViews and other network services on behalf of users.  Moderation
   services publish signed annotations (labels), which may be aggregated
   by AppViews and included in API responses based on request headers
   provided by client applications.

   The AT framework itself does not specify common social media
   conventions like "follows" or "avatars", leaving these to
   application-level schemas.  Client developers can choose to reuse



Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   existing schemas (and data) or declare their own.  Use cases include
   traditional web document publishing (articles and pages), short-form
   video, collaborative coding, reviews, photo sharing, microblogging,
   business listings, etc.

2.  Network Identity

   Individual accounts in the AT network are referenced by both a
   permanent account identifier and a mutable "handle".  The permanent
   identifier is intended for machine use and enables persistent
   references and social graph relationships.  It is controlled by the
   end user and does not change if the account migrates between hosting
   providers.  The handle is intended for display and human recognition.

   Network identity may be pseudonymous and unlinked to offline
   identity.  Users may have a single account and identity used across
   all applications, or multiple identities for distinct use-cases or
   personas.

2.1.  Permanent Account Identifiers (DIDs)

   Permanent account identifiers are Decentralized Identifier (DID), as
   specified in [W3CDID].  For the purpose of AT, DIDs are string
   identifiers (URIs) that be universally resolved to a DID document,
   which is a JSON document with a standard structure.  The DID document
   contains identifier references ("alsoKnownAs"), public cryptographic
   key declarations ("verificationMethod"), and service endpoint
   declarations ("service").  The DID framework allows for many distinct
   resolution mechanisms ("methods"), each with their own design trade-
   offs around cost, latency, consistency, etc.  Method types are
   indicated in the string identifier itself.  To ensure
   interoperability, in the AT framework only a small number of
   "blessed" DID methods may be used; however new methods may be
   supported in the future as an evolvability mechanism.

   The two supported DID methods are:

   *  did:web (eg, did:web:example.com), a W3C draft specification
      ([DIDWEB]) based on an HTTPS well-known endpoint.  In the context
      of AT, path segments are not allowed.

   *  did:plc (eg, did:plc:ewvi7nxzyoun6zhxrhs64oiz), an independent
      specification ([DIDPLC]) based on self-authenticating operation
      logs, with authority rooted in rotatable cryptographic keys.







Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   Control of an AT network account is rooted in control of the DID,
   over the full lifetime of the account.  DID document contents can be
   changed, but the identifier (and thus DID method) can not be changed,
   merged, or split.

   See Appendix A for AT-specific details.

2.2.  Handles

   Account handles are DNS hostnames.  Handles must be bidirectionally
   validated: the handle must resolve to the DID, and the same DID must
   resolve to the handle.  Accounts can have at most one valid handle at
   a time, but they can change.  Handles are human-readable, intended
   for display in end-user applications, and may contain additional
   semantics, such as implying a degree of affiliation or control
   between an account and the party controlling a registered domain
   name.  Handles are sometimes displayed with the @ prefix, like
   @handle.example.com.

   DID documents reference a handle with a URI entry in the alsoKnownAs
   array.  The format is the string at:// followed by the handle.  Only
   the first value with the at:// prefix is considered.

   Handles can resolve to DIDs using either of the following two
   mechanisms, both demonstrating control of the DNS hostname:

   *  a DNS TXT record at the hostname with the additional prefix part
      _atproto (for example, _atproto.handle.example.com for the handle
      example.com).  The TXT record value is in key/value syntax with
      the key name did, like did=did:web:example.com.

   *  an HTTPS well-known endpoint at /.well-known/atproto-did.  The
      response should have Content-Type text/plain, and include the full
      DID with no additional prefix or suffix.

   If an account's handle fails to validate for any reason, it should
   not be displayed to end users.  Instead, the handle.invalid pseudo-
   handle may be used, or the account DID may be displayed.

3.  Data Repositories

   Public AT data records are stored in per-account data repositories.
   The repository data structure is a key/value content-addressed Merkle
   Search Tree (MST, originally described in [MST]), which functions as
   a key/value store.  The top of the tree is referenced by a signed
   commit object, which includes a revision code to prevent accidental
   out-of-order processing.  Commits, tree nodes, and data records are
   all serialized with a deterministic flavor of CBOR.  Updates to



Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 5]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   repositories, including a new commit, can be expressed as verifiable
   diff operations.  Records may be deleted, leaving no long-term
   observable state in the repository, and deletion events are broadcast
   the same as other repository operations.  Entire repositories can be
   serialized in a simple appended-blocks file format (CAR files).

   Details of the repository structure and mechanisms for synchronizing
   repositories across the network are expanded in [ATREPO].

   Media files, including images, audio, video, and long-form text, are
   not included directly in repositories but are instead stored as
   separate "blobs" and referenced by content hash, size, and content
   type.

   Repositories can contain records of many schemas and for many
   distinct applications and use-cases.  In live network use, they can
   contain anywhere from a handful to millions of distinct records, and
   have overall sizes of kilobytes to hundreds of megabytes.  Individual
   CBOR records are usually hundreds to thousands of bytes in size.
   Service operators may enforce limits on the rate of repo operations
   and the size of individual records.

3.1.  Data Model

   Records are structured data objects that can be represented in both
   JSON and a deterministic profile of CBOR.  The AT data model defines
   a subset of values and data structures that can be reliably round-
   tripped between the two serialization formats.  JSON representation
   is used in web applications and HTTP APIs, while CBOR is used for
   hashing, signatures, and storage in repositories.

   The deterministic CBOR encoding used is specified in Section 4.2 of
   [CBOR], with map key ordering following the original specification in
   Section 3.9 of [RFC7049] for historical compatibility.  More encoding
   details are described in [ATREPO].

   Some data types that have no direct representation in JSON are
   encoded as compound objects.  For example, binary data is encoded in
   base64 using a reserved $bytes property:

   {
     "exampleBytesField": {
       "$bytes": "nFERjvLLiw9qm45JrqH9QTzyC2Lu1Xb4ne6+sBrCzI0"
     }
   }






Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 6]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   Content references by hash can be expressed as strings without any
   special structure, or encoded as a binary link using a reserved $link
   property:

   {
     "exampleLinkField": {
       "$link": "bafyreiff4hvcmjwrrhg7477umwkl7p2bwbppqxftfjw6sk56mp2lrk6cse"
     }
   }

   References to media files (blobs) are represented in both JSON and
   CBOR using a reserved blob object structure.  Note that blob
   references can be parsed and identified out of generic record data
   without knowing the overall record schema.

   {
     "exampleBlobField": {
       "$type": "blob",
       "ref": {
         "$link": "bafkreibjfgx2gprinfvicegelk5kosd6y2frmqpqzwqkg7usac74l3t2v4"
       },
       "mimeType": "image/jpeg",
       "size": 54321
     }
   }

3.2.  AT References (URIs)

   In the context of an AT repository, keys (or paths) are simple
   strings with the format <collection>/<record-key>.  For example,
   app.example.blog.post/3kghpsza2uu2j.  The collection part describes
   the data schema of the record, and the record key identifies the
   specific record.  Depending on the data schema, the record key may
   have a fixed value if only a single instance is expected (eg, self),
   a compact sortable timestamp format (called Timestamp Identifier, or
   TID), or a more open-ended or application-specific string syntax
   (which is still URL-safe).

   Individual records can be globally referenced using a URI schema,
   at://. The structure of these references is:

   at:// <did> / <collection> / <record-key>

   For example:

at://did:plc:ewvi7nxzyoun6zhxrhs64oiz/app.example.blog.post/3kjbtzlhayo2p





Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 7]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


3.3.  Cross-Repository References

   Records frequently reference other records through AT-URI references.
   The referenced record might reside in the same repository or any
   other repository in the network.  Sometimes AT-URI references are
   complemented with the content hash of the target record to
   disambiguate the specific version being referenced, or to provide an
   integrity check.

   Verifiable links between records across the network facilitate rich
   application semantics.  To give an example from a comment thread use-
   case, when one account replies to a post authored by another account,
   the reply is created in the replying account’s repository and
   includes a cross-repository AT-URI pointing to the original post.
   Application indexes (Section 4.3) that monitor both repositories can
   observe these references and construct complete interaction threads
   by correlating the original post with its replies.

3.4.  Data Schemas

   AT record data types can be described with a schema definition
   language named Lexicon.  The Lexicon language is outside the scope of
   this overview document.  It has many features and properties in
   common with JSON Schemas ([JSONSCHEMA]), but includes a global schema
   namespace system, an "open union" data type for third-party schema
   extensibility, and rules for evolving schemas over time without
   breaking existing data or applications.

   Lexicon schemas are identified by Namespace Identifiers (NSIDs),
   which have authority rooted in the global DNS system.  NSID syntax is
   to take a DNS hostname, reverse the order of parts, and then append a
   single additional name.  The set of all NSIDs which differ only by
   the final part is referred to as a "group".  For example, the NSID
   app.example.blog.post has the group app.example.blog and final name
   blog; it corresponds to the hostname blog.example.app.

   AT specifies a mechanism for resolving NSIDs to public schema
   documents, using the AT system itself.  The hostname corresponding to
   a group can have a DNS TXT record registered with the part prefix
   _lexicon, and value indicating a DID (with prefix did=, same as with
   handle resolution).  The account indicated by the DID then publishes
   in their public repository a record with the collection
   com.atproto.lexicon.schema, and the record key is the full NSID of
   the schema.  A complete AT Reference may look like:

at://did:plc:ewvi7nxzyoun6zhxrhs64oiz/com.atproto.lexicon.schema/app.example.blog.post





Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 8]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   This provides a mechanism for validating data records of any type in
   the global network if needed.  Most network services are not expected
   to resolve and validate schemas at runtime.  Instead, the schema
   system allows independent parties to interoperate and reuse public
   data without explicit permission or prior coordination.

4.  Network Architecture

   The Network Identity and Data Repository components provide a
   mechanism for any party to authenticate data repositories that they
   may have obtained a copy of.  This section of the document describes
   the current network architecture and service roles that facilitate
   the distribution of repository data.  However, note that alternative
   transports and architectures are possible.

   Transfer of repositories between any two hosts in the network uses
   the same synchronization protocol, regardless of the host roles in
   the network, with the client or “downstream” host initiating the
   transfer process (”pull” versus “push”).  Details of the
   synchronization mechanism are described in [ATREPO].

   A key principle of AT is that any party can resolve, fetch, and
   authenticate the full data repository for any account in the network
   at any time, without prior permission or authentication.  Individual
   data records may be deleted at any time, and entire accounts may be
   deactivated (pausing redistribution) or deleted.

   Most APIs in the network are simple JSON over HTTP.  API endpoints
   can be specified using the Lexicon schema language, in a system
   called “XRPC”. Such an endpoint specified by a schema named
   com.example.getContent could be requested at the path /xrpc/
   com.example.getContent.  Some of the endpoints that are part of the
   AT system itself are specified using XRPC.  Using the XRPC system
   improves interoperability across organizational boundaries, but it is
   not mandatory for all network services.

4.1.  Personal Data Server (PDS)

   Each account in the network is hosted on a Personal Data Server
   (PDS), which may host one or many accounts.  The PDS hosts the data
   repository, holds the signing key used to authenticate repository
   updates and external API requests, and often has enough control of
   the account's network identity to facilitate simple changes like
   handle updates.

   PDS instances implement the public repository sync mechanism for all
   hosted accounts.  Blobs, records, and entire repositories can be
   fetched by any client without authentication (though reasonable rate-



Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                 [Page 9]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   limits may be enforced).  Updates to repositories, identities, and
   account status are all broadcast publicly over a "firehose"
   WebSocket, which any party can subscribe to.

   Account migration between hosts is achieved by uploading a copy of
   the data repository and any blobs to a new provider, and then
   updating the network identity (DID document) to reference the new PDS
   host and newly generated signing key.  Accounts are expected to have
   a semi-trusting relationship with their PDS provider.  They may
   choose to maintain independent control of their network identity and
   backups of their account data to ensure that they can fully recover
   their accounts if the provider stops operation suddenly or
   unexpectedly violates trust.

   Accounts on a PDS instance may be "active" or have one of several
   "inactive" statuses, including account deactivation, deletion, or
   takendown (by the host).  Account status usually propagates
   "downstream" via broadcast messages on the firehose.  Account status
   can be verified by querying the currently declared PDS instance.

4.2.  Relay

   Any party that wants to synchronize or observe the entire network
   could maintain direct connections to all known PDS instances.
   Maintaining hundreds or thousands of active subscriptions and
   preventing network abuse can require some operational oversight, so
   as a convenience subscribers can instead subscribe to a single relay
   instance.

   Relays subscribe to all known PDS instances (or some subset of
   instance).  They check every inbound message, apply rate-limits, and
   re-broadcast all valid messages on a aggregated firehose.  The
   firehose stream format is the exact same as subscribing to an
   individual PDS instance.

   Relays can discover new PDS instances by scraping identity
   directories for service endpoint declarations, or by querying an
   existing relay for a host list.  PDS instances can also announce
   themselves to relay instances.  Relay services may be provided
   publicly to enable network ecosystem growth, or they might be
   operated privately.










Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 10]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


4.3.  Application Indices

   Providing featureful and performant web application experiences
   usually requires application-specific data indexing.  Depending on
   the use-case, this might include full-text search indices, social
   graphs, numeric aggregations, timeseries, backlink indices,
   denormalized views, etc.

   The AT network services which maintain these indices and provide
   network APIs to access them, are called "AppViews" because they
   provide an application-specific view or perspective of the overall
   network.  Such services commonly subscribe to a full-network firehose
   provided by a relay and filter down to only the record types relevant
   to the application.  In other cases, they may offload full
   synchronization to an external service which provides a filtered
   stream of relevant messages.  If needed, services can backfill older
   data by enumerating relevant accounts in the network and fetching
   full repository exports from each account's PDS.

   AppViews might implement API endpoints with public Lexicon schemas,
   service authenticated requests from any account, and provide public
   unauthenticated API access.  But they are not required to do any of
   these things.

4.4.  Composable Services

   Applications can provide extension points that allow many network
   services to fill a well-defined interface.  The design pattern is for
   services to advertise their existence using a public declaration
   record that includes service metadata.  The backing service is
   identified by a DID, and declares a service endpoint in the DID
   document matching a defined identifier fragment.  Client applications
   indicate which service they would like to fulfill a request by
   indicating the declaration record by AT-URI in a request to an
   AppView.

   For example, a music service could provide a composable extension
   point for recommendation services.  Clients would make requests to
   the music AppView indicating which specific recommendation service
   should be used.  The AppView resolves and queries the services for a
   set of candidates, and then hydrates those results with additional
   metadata and moderation labels before returning them to the client.









Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 11]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


4.5.  Client Applications

   Clients are central to both the end-user experience and power
   dynamics in the network.  They are downstream of other network
   services in terms of dataflow, but ultimately control feature sets,
   service provider defaults, content visibility, moderation features,
   most forms of monetization, etc.  Major clients and the application
   indices and moderation services they rely on are expected to have
   mutually sustainable relationships, or even be operated by the same
   party.  In contrast, clients may be relatively independent from PDS
   service providers.

   Clients "write" to the public network by creating records to account
   repositories, and can "read" from the network either by requests to
   an application index API, or by directly reading records and blobs
   from PDS instances.

   Clients may authenticate directly to account PDS instances and proxy
   API requests to other AT network services via the PDS, which adds
   Service Auth on behalf of the user (see Authentication section).
   Alternatively, clients may be more tightly integrated with an AppView
   (application index) and make requests to that service, which would
   only make requests on to the account's PDS instance if necessary.

5.  Moderation

   Infrastructure-layer moderation is an unavoidable part of hosting
   user-generated content on the web.  This means that all AT network
   services need mechanisms to take down content that is illegal in the
   physical jurisdiction of the service.

   However, modern social web moderation addresses many behavioral
   patterns and harms beyond simple legality.  Individual network
   services are operated by single parties, who may not be well-
   positioned to address many or all aspects of moderation.  For
   example, a PDS operator may not be familiar with all of the
   application types used by hosted accounts.  A design principle for
   the AT system is that, as much as possible, the role of moderation
   should be unbundled from the operation of infrastructure.  This can
   be achieved using the composable labeling system described below, or
   via application-specific product features.

   Client applications play a central role in network moderation.
   Clients have the closest relationship to end users, control
   distribution and display of content, have recognizable brands at
   state, and are most likely to be in a position to capture value
   through monetization.  Design of product features, selection of
   infrastructure providers, and default configurations are all



Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 12]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   decisions made by application developers.  For these reasons, it is
   client applications that are expected to engage with and support any
   moderation services they depend on.

5.1.  Labeling

   Labels are a form of authenticated metadata about specific content
   and accounts in the AT network.  They were originally developed as a
   composable system for content moderation, but they are not
   moderation-specific and have found alternative use-cases such as
   account badging and content curation.

   Labels exist as free-standing, self-authenticated data objects,
   though they are also frequently distributed as part of AppView API
   responses.  Additionally, label "values" may be directly embedded in
   records themselves ("self-labels").  Labels primarily consist of a
   source (DID), a subject (URI), and value.  The value is a short
   string, similar to a tag or hashtag, which presumably has pre-defined
   semantics shared between the creator and consumer of the label.
   Additional metadata fields can give additional context, but at any
   point in time there should be only one coherent set of metadata for
   the combination of source, subject, and value.  If there are multiple
   sets of metadata, the created-at timestamp is used to clarify which
   label is current.  Automated labeling services generate too many
   labels for them to be published as records in repositories.

   Labeling services (identified by a service DID) can provide a message
   stream of label updates, which can also be used to enumerate and
   backfill historical labels.  Labels are ingested and indexed by
   AppViews, and can be hydrated into API responses as metadata, or in
   other cases used to trigger takedown actions.

   Clients can indicate which labeling services they would like to have
   hydrated by using the Atproto-Accept-Labelers HTTP header on
   requests.  The format of this header is a comma-separated array of
   DIDs.  The AppView will include the Atproto-Content-Labelers HTTP
   header in responses, to indicate the set of labelers that were
   successfully resolved and hydrated into the response.

6.  Authentication and Authorization











Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 13]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


6.1.  OAuth

   AT includes an OAuth profile for client authentication and
   authorization to the user's host (PDS) as an auth server.  The AT
   use-case is different from a traditional OAuth platform or identity
   provider (IdP) in that there are many independent hosting providers
   and many independent client applications in the network, and no
   single authority with whom to register (or revoke) clients.

   The AT OAuth profile builds on the draft OAuth 2.1 Authorization
   Framework ([OAUTH21]), which means:

   *  only the "authorization code" OAuth 2.0 grant type is supported,
      not "implicit" or other grant types

   *  mandatory Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE, RFC 7636)

   *  security best practices (Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0
      Security and draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps) are required

   In addition:

   *  DPoP (with mandatory server issued nonces) is required to bind
      auth tokens to specific client software instances (eg, end devices
      or browser sessions)

   *  Pushed Authentication Requests (PAR) are used to streamline the
      authorization request flow

   Clients use the draft OAuth Client ID Metadata Document
   ([OAUTHCLIENTID]) mechanism to use a public URL as a client_id, and
   publish a JSON metadata document at that URL.  Users usually initiate
   the auth flow by providing a global account identifier (handle or
   DID), which the client resolves to an Auth Server (PDS).

6.2.  Permissions

   To describe permissions on PDS resources granted to OAuth client
   sessions, AT includes a custom authorization scope language.  This
   includes a string syntax for including in OAuth client auth requests.
   AT-specific resources for which permissions can be requested include
   writing to the account's public repository (granular by record
   collection), uploading of media files (blobs), external API requests
   to third parties (granular by API endpoint and/or by service
   provider), network identity, and aspects of account hosting itself.






Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 14]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   Clients may commonly request permissions to resources across many
   NSID namespaces.  To address the separate issues of dynamic feature
   extension (new schemas) and overwhelmingly complex authentication
   requests, the system allows for the definition of "permission sets",
   which are bundles of permissions on related resources in the same
   namespace.  These are published as Lexicon schemas and resolved at
   runtime by Auth Servers.  They can include short summary descriptions
   for display to end users during the auth approval flow.  They are
   constrained in scope to named resources under the same NSID domain
   authority, to prevent cross-domain privilege escalation.

6.3.  Service Auth

   Requests between AT network services can be authenticated using
   signed tokens (JWTs) as HTTP Authentication Bearer tokens.  DIDs are
   used to identity individual services, and signatures can be verified
   by resolving the DID document and extracting the appropriate key.
   Multiple public keys can be published for distinct service types, and
   distinguished using identifier fragments.  For example,
   did:web:api.example.com#example_service.  If no fragment is included,
   #atproto is used.

   The target service is indicated in the audience (aud) field, the
   Lexicon API endpoint being called is identified in the lxm field, and
   the requesting service (or account) is indicated in the issuer (iss)
   field.

7.  Security Considerations

   A detailed analysis of attack surfaces and security mitigations is
   out of scope for this overview document, but a few broad themes can
   be addressed.

   AT public data repositories are for manifestly public data, which may
   be redistributed, archived, and enumerated individually or in bulk
   form by any party on the public internet.

   Account identities may be pseudonymous, but hosting providers and
   client applications are likely to have visibility of identifying
   metadata, such as account emails and device IP addresses.
   Authenticated proxy requests to other services in the network may
   strip _some_ identifying metadata, but still include strong
   authentication.








Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 15]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   Identity resolution requires care.  The relationship between handles
   and DIDs must be verified bidirectionally.  Cleartext DNS TXT
   resolution can be observed or manipulated on untrusted networks;
   clients on end-devices (including browser apps) should use DNS-over-
   HTTPS or similar techniques.

   Hosting (and re-hosting) of user-uploaded media files raises many web
   platform security concerns.  Account hosts should have restrictive
   CORS policies.  Client apps (including OAuth client apps) should not
   be operated on the same origin as user-uploaded media files.

   Hosting providers should not trust authenticated client requests,
   especially those resulting in proxied or other outbound network
   requests to arbitrary hosts (for example, identity resolution of
   arbitrary hostnames).  Mitigations against SSRI and request
   amplification are essential.

   Binary data formats must be treated as untrusted, including CBOR data
   objects and serialized CAR files.  When parsing these formats,
   recursion limits and overall memory allocation quotas should be
   enforced.

8.  IANA Considerations

   The at:// URI scheme has a provisional registration.  See
   https://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/uri-schemes.xhtml.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

   [CBOR]     Bormann, C. and P. Hoffman, "Concise Binary Object
              Representation (CBOR)", STD 94, RFC 8949,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8949, December 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8949>.

   [CONTROLLEDID]
              Longley, D., Sporny, M., Sabadello, M., Reed, D., Steele,
              O., and C. Allen, "Controlled Identifiers v1.0", May 2025,
              <https://www.w3.org/TR/2025/REC-cid-1.0-20250515/>.

   [RFC7049]  Bormann, C. and P. Hoffman, "Concise Binary Object
              Representation (CBOR)", RFC 7049, DOI 10.17487/RFC7049,
              October 2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7049>.







Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 16]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   [W3CDID]   Sporny, M., Longley, D., Sabadello, M., Reed, D., Steele,
              O., and C. Allen, "Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) v1.0",
              July 2022,
              <https://www.w3.org/TR/2022/REC-did-core-20220719/>.

9.2.  Informative References

   [ATPAPER]  Kleppmann, M., Frazee, P., Gold, J., Graber, J., Holmgren,
              D., Ivy, D., Johnson, J., Newbold, B., and J. Volpert,
              "Bluesky and the AT Protocol: Usable Decentralized Social
              Media", December 2024,
              <https://doi.org/10.1145/3694809.3700740>.

   [ATREPO]   Holmgren, D. and B. Newbold, "Authenticated Transfer
              Repository and Synchronization", September 2025,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-holmgren-at-
              repository/>.

   [DIDPLC]   Holmgren, D., "did:plc Method Specification v0.1", May
              2023, <https://web.plc.directory/spec/v0.1/did-plc>.

   [DIDWEB]   Gribneau, C., Prorock, M., Steele, O., Terbu, O., Xu, M.,
              and D. Zagidulin, "did:web Method Specification (Draft)",
              July 2024, <https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-method-web/>.

   [JSONSCHEMA]
              Wright, A., Andrews, H., Hutton, B., and G. Dennis, "JSON
              Schema: A Media Type for Describing JSON Documents", June
              2022, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-bhutton-
              json-schema/>.

   [MST]      Auvolat, A. and F. Taïani, "Merkle Search Trees: Efficient
              State-Based CRDTs in Open Networks", October 2019,
              <https://inria.hal.science/hal-02303490/document>.

   [OAUTH21]  Hardt, D., Parecki, A., and T. Lodderstedt, "The OAuth 2.1
              Authorization Framework", May 2025,
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1/>.

   [OAUTHCLIENTID]
              Parecki, A. and E. Smith, "OAuth Client ID Metadata
              Document", July 2025, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
              draft-parecki-oauth-client-id-metadata-document/>.

Appendix A.  DID Documents

   A DID document describes an account in the AT network if it includes
   the following:



Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 17]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   *  a handle declaration in the alsoKnownAs array (described in the
      "Handle" section below).

   *  an AT signing key under verificationMethod, with the id ending
      #atproto and the controller matching the DID of the document
      itself.  The type should be "Multikey", as described in the
      Controlled Identifiers W3C standard ([CONTROLLEDID]).  The
      supported key types are described in Appendix B.

   *  a service endpoint under service, with the id ending #atproto_pds
      and type matching "AtprotoPersonalDataServer".  This must be a
      public HTTPS URL, with no path segment, indicating the current
      hosting provider of the account.

Appendix B.  Cryptographic Keys

   To maximize interoperability, AT supports only a small set of
   cryptographic systems and curve types.  This set may expand slowly
   over time as an evolvability mechanism.  The two elliptic curve types
   supported are:

   *  NIST P-256, aka "secp256r1"

   *  “secp256k1”, aka K-256

   Unless otherwise specified, public keys are encoded in "Multikey"
   string encoding, as described in [CONTROLLEDID].  As specified in
   that document, P-256 keys are prefixed with the bytes 0x8024 before
   being encoded.  For similar historical reasons, K-256 keys are
   prefixed with 0xE701.  Compressed 32-byte binary encodings are used
   for both key types.

   In ECDSA, both key types have malleable signatures.  In the context
   of AT data signatures, only "low-S" signatures are considered valid.
   This does not apply when using the same keys in other contexts, such
   as JWT signatures.

Acknowledgements

   A complete description of the Authenticated Transfer system was
   jointly published by the protocol design team in [ATPAPER].  Since
   that publication, Matthieu Sieben has contributed significantly.
   Aaron Goldman contributed to an earlier prototype.

   The authors would like to sincerely thank the entire AT open source
   development community ("Atmosphere") for their feedback, commentary,
   creativity, and patience throughout the development of protocol.




Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 18]

Internet-Draft               AT Architecture              September 2025


   The AT system was directly informed and influenced by existing P2P
   and federated social web technologies, in particular Secure
   Scuttlebutt, dat://, IPFS, and ActivityPub.  The authors would like
   to thank the designers and developers of these protocols for their
   ongoing contributions to the field and openness to collaboration.

Authors' Addresses

   Bryan Newbold
   Bluesky Social
   Email: bryan@blueskyweb.xyz


   Daniel Holmgren
   Bluesky Social
   Email: daniel@blueskyweb.xyz



































Newbold & Holmgren        Expires 18 March 2026                [Page 19]
